the Federal Reserve just made a big
change and I need you to know exactly
what's going on this is going to have an
impact throughout the rest of 20124 you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you in today's video we are
going to talk about a change that seems
small but the ripples will be something
we need to pay attention to so we're
going to break that all down today all
right so we're looking here at a press
release from the Federal Reserve dated
January 24th 2024 and we're talking
about the bank term funding program this
was an emergency program that was set up
by the Federal Reserve in March of 20123
you had Silicon Valley Bank all these
other Banks start to fail so they create
this special Facility by the way it says
the bottom line which I love this was
with the approval of the treasury
secretary your favorite and my no no no
my favorite only Janet Yellen approving
that so that they could continuously
give money to where it needed to be at
any given time all right great so this
is a temporary emergency measure that
one year later supposed to end here we
are coming up in March and they're
saying hey March it's over but something
changed okay they are changing the
interest rate that's associated with
this I'll break it down for you but it
it is a big change and we'll talk about
why looking at this you are seeing the
btfp and you're also seeing uh what's
important basically the the interest
rate the FED funds rate so look at the
um Blue Line right there and that's you
know your interest rates the red is your
btfp they each have their own interest
rate now think about this you have a
bank let's just say JP Morgan okay it's
fun to pick on them JP Morgan could
could go and borrow from this
btfp take some cash and then park it at
the Federal
Reserve in their reserves the excess
reserves Park them over there overnight
and earn an interest that interest being
like the the spread in between these two
now if you could borrow just let me ask
you something here if you could borrow a
dollar and get back
$2 how many dollars would you
borrow can you think of that for a
second how many dollars you borrow $1
and you get back
$2 right I think the answer should be as
many dollars as I can
borrow because I'm going to get double
back well that's sort of an extreme
example to highlight the point of what's
happening today they're borrowing at a
lower rate putting it to somewhere that
is risk-free for them and then getting
the difference now it's not double but
it's still risk-free so some of the cash
that they have been you know investing
has been in this but now that's changed
so the Federal Reserve realized what's
going on the big banks are doing this
and they're saying okay okay we realize
what's going on we're going we're going
to stop that so if they're trying to do
this make money off the spread it's not
going to work for them that's what the
Federal Reserve has decided okay
some have speculated that they want to
keep it going longer than the one
year why would they do that well maybe
these small banks are in big trouble and
I've got some information to show you
related to that here today so of course
svb starts failing boom immediately
there's this big uptick they open up
this facility immediately there's an
uptick in the usage of the facility and
then it just slows slowly starts growing
over time but then right around December
time frame it starts to
accelerate and I guess they just got the
memo hey let's just use this to make
some cash why not and now the we'll
we'll see how it changes but potentially
they're not going to bother anymore if
they're not going to make the spread in
between the
two there's another problem you got
March right that's when this is supposed
to be finishing up but you also have
another thing that's the reverse repos
well reverse repos are coming to an end
potentially pretty soon you got about
$600 billion dollar a night versus where
it was for quite a while it was like 2
2.3 trillion somewhere in that
range and now as of March time frame
that would be down to
zero okay so you got the BTF P ending
you've got the reverse repos
ending and the potential potential for
any form of change in interest rates is
the Federal Reserve going to cut are
they going to announce a cut at the same
time are they going to stop or at least
announce quantitative tightening I think
we could probably get at least a
reduction in the quantitative tightening
so instead of cutting $80 billion a
month as they're doing right now maybe
we're going to get 60 40 20 and so on
that's what they did in previous Cycles
so that that could change things and
Lori Logan from the Federal Reserve
specifically made this known and she
said we got to start doing that because
the reverse repos are getting down too
far and we're not ready for
that I brought this up many times
previous videos if you haven't already
you've got to subscribe to the channel
because these are the things that I get
into and then like two months later they
they come in the
news so you can be way ahead of the
curve all right so that's where we're at
today with the reverse repos March is a
big one there's no question about that
and so we could see the data give me a
second here as we look at this to
explain
it what we can see is that the small
Banks the small banks are in a they've
got a big issue because without that
btfp they don't have the
Reserves they need that cash because a
lot of people start pulling their cash
from these small Banks so they're kind
of making up the shortfall by utilizing
this btfp so we got a problem so maybe
they have to extend that Beyond March it
shows frail
fragile banking system that perhaps we
can see much more consolidation JP
Morgan comes and I'll buy them Goldman
Sachs gos okay I'll buy them and we have
less competition and we have these
octopus this this monster that consumes
it all it's already like that
technically but you're going to have
that issue at the same time though if
you look at Commercial Real Estate you
know commercial real estate's bad you
could see all the empty malls if you've
never seen those videos before it's been
a while since I've seen them but they
were all over YouTube where you would
just see this empty Mall completely
abandoned there's debt associated with
that a lot of debt all right and then
you look at the retail you have
beautiful like Fifth Avenue location
like Prime real estate I've seen places
all over every city basically where you
have this really nice Prime real estate
and yet there's no tenant it's empty
okay there's debt associated with that
but in many cases a lot of this
commercial real estate like more than
50% I believe is with these small
lenders you see the
problem there's like that's where we
could have the biggest problem not with
the JP Morgans not with the Goldman
saches can start small and then of
course there's a ripple effect that's an
issue that's the big concern right now
and then it just says stocks are
becoming more sensitive to a decline in
reserves there's no question about that
I've covered it before this is the money
mirror method and essentially all you
need to know is that the more money and
liquidity that's in the system more
money and liquidity creates a situation
where we can have stock prices going
higher less money less liquidity in the
system stocks can go lower but over time
as time has moved on what I have I mean
I've really studied this in depth the
more time that passes
the more reliant on that so maybe 100
years ago that really wasn't a factor
but like 50 years ago was a little bit
more and then like 2000 it started to
become really evident 2008 oh my
goodness and ever since then in 2020 and
Beyond it's like
extremely so you got to follow the money
mirror method that's what I talk about
on the Friday live sessions that I have
but um for those who don't I've done a
video about it before money mirror
method some Wall Street Executives feel
a tantrum is coming in the US short-term
financing markets perhaps as soon as
March it could put pressure on the
Federal Reserve to ease policy you see
March March March this is the big one a
series of events are expected between
March and may some of which will reduce
the amount of cash in the financial
system While others increase the demand
for liquidity a Fed lending facility
that was put in place after the Regional
banking cers last year will expire on
March
11th all right it talks about the other
option which is the standing repo
facility that really hasn't been used
all on this um you know
btfp all right and then they talk about
all these other things that are
happening but March is the big one let's
keep an eye on that of course if you're
here on the channel you get all the news
you get everything but there's the big
concern is like okay where do we get
this liquidity from if the Federal
Reserve is not the one pumping and
interest rates are still high we need
more liquidity uhoh we got a problem
well the expectation is of course that
the Federal Reserve has to come in and
back stop the losses has to come in and
buy up all the treasuries buy up the
mortgage back Securities maybe just
maybe buy the stocks oh they won't do
that well what did they do last time
they bought ETFs on the corporate bonds
for instance that was an indirect really
a direct bailout of the biggest
companies in the world Apple was the
biggest
beneficiary of that particular program
Apple the biggest company or one of the
biggest companies in the entire world do
you see what they do
unbelievable all right if you want to be
able to get ahead of everybody if you
want to have the information that is
basically just it's not know you're not
going to be able to get to it uh for the
most part well I do that on my live
sessions that is the money gps.com live
I want to see you there because with our
small little group we are able to
connect and share and get the latest and
greatest information literally before
they happen before they become
mainstream so you can take advantage of
that and we talk about all different
opportunities that are available and
everything that link is down in the
description as always I want to see you
back here tomorrow take care